E2E tests using OCI image (#176)
kyma-project/btp-manager: docs/e2e_tests.md

---
title: E2E tests of btp-manager installation from OCI module image
---

## Overview

> End to end (E2E) tests currently check if we are able to install and then uninstall btp-manager using OCI module image and helm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
End-to-end (E2E) tests currently check if you can install and then uninstall btp-manager using OCI module image and Helm.
```

> The flow is as follows:

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better to have a numbered list here?

Author: Changed in the next commit.

> - create OCI module image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- create an OCI module image
```

- push the image to the registry

> - create k3s cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- create a Kubernetes cluster
```

> - wait for OCI module image to be available in registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- wait for the OCI module image to be available in the registry
```

> - fetch OCI module image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fetch the OCI module image
```

> - helm install btp-manager chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Helm install the btp-manager chart
```

> - helm uninstall btp-manager 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Helm uninstall btp-manager 
```

### CI pipelines

> The OCI module image is created by prow presubmit job named 'pull-btp-manager-module-build'. Actual execution is done by `./hack/create_module_image.sh` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCI module image is created by the Prow presubmit job named 'pull-btp-manager-module-build'. The actual execution is done by the `./hack/create_module_image.sh` script.
```

> This script sets appropriate environment variables and invokes `make module-build`. In effect the module is built and OCI module image is pushed to the registry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script sets appropriate environment variables and invokes `make module-build`. In effect, the module is built, and the OCI module image is pushed to the registry. 
```

> Registry url and component name are predefined. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The registry URL and component name are predefined. 
```

> > **NOTE:**
> > The image tag has form 0.0.0-PR-<PR number> due to component description requirements imposed by used tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:**
> The image tag has the form `0.0.0-PR-<PR number>` due to component description requirements imposed by the tooling used.
```

> Test are executed by Github Actions workflow (`e2e-test-k3s.yaml`). The k3s cluster is created, sources are checked out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tests are executed by Github Actions workflow (`e2e-test-k3s.yaml`). The Kubernetes cluster is created, and sources are checked out.
```

> Worflow waits till OCI module image is available for fetching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow waits till the OCI module image is available for fetching.
```

> The OCI module image is fetched from registry by `./testing/run_e2e_module_tests.sh` script. This scripts creates required prerequisites, installs helm chart and uninstalls it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCI module image is fetched from the registry by the `./testing/run_e2e_module_tests.sh` script. This script creates the required prerequisites, installs the Helm chart, and uninstalls it.
```

### Run E2E tests locally

> For local test you can use OCI module image from official registry (i.e. module image created by prow presubmit job) or you can use local docker registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local tests, you can use the OCI module image from the official registry (that is, the module image created by the Prow presubmit job) or you can use the local Docker registry.
```

> E.g. to create OCI module based on current sources and push it to local docker registry you can use following command (adjusting tag appropriately):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to create an OCI module based on current sources and push it to the local Docker registry, you can use the following command (adjusting the tag appropriately):
```

```shell
make module-build IMG=component-descriptors/kyma.project.io/module/btp-operator:0.0.5-PR-176 MODULE_REGISTRY=localhost:5001/unsigned MODULE_VERSION=0.0.5-PR-176
```

> Then you can run E2E test by issuing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can run the E2E tests by issuing:
```

---
title: E2E tests of btp-manager installation from OCI module image
---

## Overview

End-to-end (E2E) tests currently check if you can install and then uninstall btp-manager using OCI module image and Helm.
The flow is as follows:
1. create an OCI module image
2. push the image to the registry
3. create a Kubernetes cluster
4. wait for the btp-operator OCI module image to be available in the registry
5. wait for the btp-manager image to be available in the registry
6. fetch the btp-operator OCI module image
7. Helm install btp-manager from the chart

> 8. Verification if deployment is in Available state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. verify if deployment is in the state `Available`
```

> 7. execute `helm install btp-manager chart`
> 8. verify if deployment is in the state `Available`
> 9. execute `helm uninstall btp-manager` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. run `helm install btp-manager chart`
8. verify if deployment is in the `Available` state
9. run `helm uninstall btp-manager` 
```

### CI pipelines
The OCI module image is created by the Prow presubmit job named 'pull-btp-manager-module-build'. The actual execution is done by the `./hack/create_module_image.sh` script.
This script sets appropriate environment variables and invokes `make module-build`. In effect, the module is built, and the OCI module image is pushed to the registry. 
The registry URL and component name are predefined. 

> **NOTE:**

> > The module image tag has the form 0.0.0-PR-<PR number> due to component description requirements imposed by the tooling used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The module image tag has the form `0.0.0-PR-<PR number>` due to component description requirements imposed by the tooling used.
```

 
The tests are executed by Github Actions workflow (`e2e-test-k3s.yaml`). The Kubernetes cluster is created, and sources are checked out.
The workflow waits till the OCI module image is available for fetching.
The OCI module image is fetched from the registry by the `./scripts/testing/run_e2e_module_tests.sh` script. This script creates the required prerequisites, installs the Helm chart, and uninstalls it.

### Run E2E tests locally on k3d cluster

For local tests, you can use the OCI module image from the official registry (that is, the module image created by the Prow presubmit job) 
or you can use the local registry.

> The easiest way is to create k3d cluster and local registry issuing following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way is to create a k3d cluster and a local registry by running the following command:
```

```shell
kyma provision k3d
```

> The `k3d-kyma` cluster will be created along with k3d registry `k3d-kyma-registry:5001`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `k3d-kyma` cluster will be created along with the k3d registry `k3d-kyma-registry:5001`.
```

> Now you can run E2E test. Setting PR_NAME allows you to control the image tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can run E2E tests. Setting PR_NAME allows you to control the image tag.
```

> If you want to tag the images with `PR-234` you and run the script with as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to tag the images with `PR-234`, run the following script:
```

```shell
PR_NAME=PR-234 ./scripts/testing/run_e2e_on_k3d.sh
```

The script:

> 1. creates binary image `btp-manager:${PR_NAME}` and pushes the image to the k3d registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. creates the binary `btp-manager:${PR_NAME}` image, and pushes it to the k3d registry.
```

> 2. creates OCI module image `component-descriptors/kyma.project.io/module/btp-operator:0.0.0-${PR_NAME}` and pushes the module to the k3d registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. creates the OCI module image `component-descriptors/kyma.project.io/module/btp-operator:0.0.0-${PR_NAME}`, and pushes the module to the k3d registry.
```

3. downloads the btp-operator OCI module image from k3d registry

> 4. executes `helm install btp-manager chart`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. runs `helm install btp-manager chart`
```

> 5. verifies if deployment is in the state `Available`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. verifies if deployment is in the `Available` state
```

> 6. executes `helm uninstall btp-manager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. runs `helm uninstall btp-manager`
```
